I'm Mandy Chambers.
I am the vice principal of Fundy Middle
and High School.
Today, what I'm going to talk about is
relationship building with small groups.
So at lunch time,
we had a vice principal.
It seemed like I was swamped after
lunch coming in.
All of the students lined up
outside of the office
needed to see an administrator,
because there was some kind of problem.
Whether somebody called them a name,
somebody was texting,
something was happening in their life that
they felt like they needed adult help.
So they were kind of lacking
some structure, lacking an activity
to do outside.
Lacking a connection
of who to find in the building
when something, wasn't there.
And maybe not really aware of
some social skills or how to make friends.
So my solution was to make,
a group take in these students
that felt like they needed,
a spark to come, join.
And they were really, interested
in doing some of those activities.
So they weren't really
they were drawn against by
the thought that, hey,
we're going to go outside.
We're going to, do some fun
activities, to use up our time.
So a couple of them were, had requested
they come in the club
and then a couple of them
I approached and was like,
hey, we're meeting at lunchtime.
Do you want to join this club?
Instead of looking for somewhere they fit?
Find what fits them.
So it's a little bit backwards.
So like I said, you're not making a, club
that's necessarily called soccer,
called math club.
You're making a club for people,
making a people club, and then you're
building on what it is they want,
what direction they want to go in.
And sometimes
they might want to do basketball,
but sometimes they might want to do
something else.
See, be flexible, offer
a variety of different activities.
It doesn't just have to be one,
but really what you're doing is you're
meeting their needs and their feelings.
And we're not going to call it
a feelings club,
but really we're trying
to make that connection with them
through whatever activity
that that the group needs at that time.
They know that they
they can come to the club
and that's when they're going to get
be greeted with a positive adult.
They're going to it's a spot for them.
They can feel safe, they can have fun,
they can be themselves at school.
There's something
they can look forward to.
It has impacted the students,
just the fact
that they have a positive relationship.
So sometimes they'll come in and
they're having a hard day or struggling,
they're refusing adults or not
quite doing what they're supposed to do.
When I get called up, someone knows
I've made that relationship with them,
so they'll ask me to come up and assist.
And as soon as they see me, you can tell
that they're even their demeanor changed.
They're a little bit more open
to a conversation
and more willing to engage
in what they're supposed to be doing.
So, it has been important for them,
for me, my personally,
what I really like is the relationship
I've built with them.
So whether I see them in the hallway,
they're saying,
good morning, Miss Chambers,
or they're coming to give me a hug
if I see them in the community,
they're always happy to see me.
So it's been very positive for me.
The day that we do
the club is one of my more exciting days.
I look forward to it.
Sometimes I get into the woods
or just have a conversation with them.
So it's been a great
relationship building piece.
I feel that every
student has a place and belongs
and needs that adult connection.
And just to know that you can make
a difference for students,
and you can be that one person
that makes their day
better, that makes their whole
high school, middle school career better.
So it's our job as educators
to make them feel welcomed.
We can make them find their place.
They need that.
And that's what we're here
for. And it's rewarding work.